---
title: "LinkedIn - a Necessary Evil?"
draft: true
---

If a tree falls in a forest and no one is there to witness it, does it make a sound? If I achieve something and do not post about it, did I even do it?

I am constantly torn between becoming an influencer and never using social media again. There is so much pressure to create a strong personal brand and have a presence online. How else am I going to find a job if no one knows I exist? How else am I worth anything if I do not share, post, and create all the time? What will the world think?

I can think of multiple pros of having a social media presence, be it LinkedIn, Facebook, Instagram, X, or any other platform:

1. **Connectivity**: Social media allows me to connect with friends, family, and colleagues, regardless of geographical barriers. It helps me stay in touch with people and maintain relationships. I bet my mum wishes I went back to posting on Facebook instead of Instagram and LinkedIn, though. Since she does not use the latter, the number of status updates she receives from me has decreased drastically.  
    

3. **Networking**: Social media platforms provide opportunities for networking and making new connections. I can discuss topics with other professionals. Potential employers might come across my posts or comments and find me pretty awesome. This can lead to career opportunities, collaborations, or new acquaintances.  
    

5. **Creativity and Expression**: Social media platforms offer various formats for creative expression, including photos, videos, and written content. It provides an outlet for self-expression, creativity, and storytelling and helps me practice the corresponding skills.  
    

7. **Feedback and Insights**: Posting on social media allows me to receive feedback and insights from whoever comes across my posts. Through comments, likes, and shares, I can gauge audience reactions, preferences, and opinions, which helps me create better, more valuable content.  
    

9. **Mental resilience**: Because not all content resonates with all audiences, posting on social media also challenges me to navigate the world of negative feedback. Learning to keep my cool despite a post's low reach or disagreeing comments makes me stronger, reduces reactivity, and increases my emotional intelligence.  
    

11. **Brand Building**: Social media offers a platform to build and promote my personal brand (if only I managed to figure out what mine is...) Through consistent posting, I can increase awareness and cultivate a following. Then, I could even proceed to turn content creation into a viable business through selling courses or providing coaching services as many LinkedIn influencers do.  
     

13. **Education and Learning**: With tons of posts published every day, social media is a vast repository of knowledge and expertise. I can learn new skills, stay updated on industry trends, or gain insights from thought leaders all from the comfort of my toilet.  
     

15. **Community Building**: Social media fosters the creation of online communities around shared interests, hobbies, or causes. These communities provide a platform for like-minded individuals to connect, share ideas, and support each other.  
     

17. **Social Impact**: Lastly, social media can be a powerful tool for social impact and advocacy. It allows me to raise awareness about the issues that matter to me (e.g. mental health or human-centred design) and drive positive change.

However, since I love arguing, I can also pose various counterarguments for being active in the toxic cesspool called social media:

1. **Negative Impact on Mental Health**: I have unfollowed the majority of personal accounts on Instagram. While I am glad my friends are living good lives and exploring the world, seeing their lovely photos did not provide any particular value to me. It only made me jealous. Whenever I fall towards excessive use of social media, I feel an increase in anxiety, depression, and loneliness. It is easy to compare myself to others' curated lives, even though I know that what I see online is a highlight reel. To avoid these unnecessary negative feelings, I populate my feeds with educational content instead.  
    

3. **Comment Section Fights**: Opinions are like assholes - everyone has one. For every opinion I share online, multiple people comment on how I am incorrect.  
    

5. **Addictive Behavior**: Have you felt how difficult it is to put away your phone when you have Instagram reels open? Social media platforms are designed to be addictive, leading to excessive usage and dependency. This can interfere with productivity, sleep patterns, and real-life relationships. Which is kind of ironic to write, given that it is way past my bedtime.  
    

7. **False Information**: Social media makes it easy to spread false information. Rumours, fake news, and lies can quickly gain traction, leading to confusion, polarization, and distrust in legitimate sources of information. An unfortunate aspect of how the algorithms are built is that posts with more comments and engagement are shown more often in feeds. Therefore, when I see a misinformative post, should I ignore it or point out the mistake?  
    

9. **Distraction and Procrastination**: Social media can be a significant source of distraction, diverting attention away from important tasks and responsibilities. Constant notifications and scrolling can hinder focus and productivity.  
    

11. **Pressure to Be Liked**: No matter how many times I tell myself the number of comments and likes does not determine my value, I still feel a bit sour when no one reacts. I believe that LinkedIn is mainly for providing valuable content, be it theory, learnings, or inspiration.  
     

13. **Negative Impact on Relationships**: I have 992 connections on LinkedIn and no idea who half of them are. They just appeared from somewhere. Excessive use of social media can lead to a decrease in face-to-face interactions and meaningful connections. How many of these 992 connections would come to my help in real life? Probably only those whose relationships I have also nurtured outside of the portal.  
     

15. **Time Consumption**: Engaging with social media can consume a significant amount of time and energy. Excessive scrolling and browsing can result in wasted hours. It usually takes me several hours to refine a LinkedIn post, even with the help of ChatGPT. I could spend that time on more meaningful activities, such as connecting with loved ones or training the dog.

I have a friend who has slowly phased out from most social media channels. She even managed to convince her friends to move their groups to WhatsApp which is now her only communication channel. Apparently, life is different this way.
