---
title: "TCD: Accidental networking"
draft: true
---

I am not a great fan of traditional networking. I find it rather shallow. I understand that it is very useful and I will never know when that random contact I made at a Microsoft event will come in handy, e.g. for when I really need a Microsoft Office licence key. Yet I cannot stop feeling like I am using people, as if they are just a means for me to get what I want. Even if I do not know yet what it is exactly that I want.

There are obviously different kinds of networking. The one I feel icky about is the most traditional one where I go to an event, talk to someone who works for a company I am interested in, get their contact information, and add it to the pile of people who I might reach out to some time in the future if I were to need something from them.

The solution would be to follow up on these new connections regularly, but if I did it on a level I myself would be satisfied with, it would count as a full-time job.

For me, this most common kind of business networking feels like I am selectively seeking out people I could take advantage of. It is like hunting for the fattest boar, the most useful connection. It is as if the actual human being behind the fancy job position or company name does not even matter anymore. I hate that concept. I hate when we overlook the value of actual deeper human connection. I suppose I myself dislike being used and, thus, I project it to others, too.

Instead, what I enjoy doing is meeting people accidentally.

Let me give you an example.

Most of the students taking the Creative Thinking and Innovation course are locals. This means that they either have brought their lunch with them or they cook it somewhere in their faculty rooms. In any case, they all disappear when the clock hits lunchtime and I am left alone.

Today, I picked up a nice pie from Bread 41 (and it was indeed a super nice pie with really soft meat and great crust and a side salad, I highly recommend it!) and went for a walk around the Trinity campus. The weather was nice, so I did not want to sit inside in a dark room. We were already doing that for the whole day and it was having a toll on my mental wellbeing.

I noticed several benches around a sports field on campus and decided to take a seat on one of them. I could have easily chosen one of the empty ones as there was a countless number of them, but instead, I plopped myself right next to a guy sitting alone with a book and a food bag by his side.

I do not exactly remember how the conversation started. I think I asked him whether he studied there. In any case, he did not reject the conversation. We had a nice chat about who we are, what we do, where we would like to travel, and other various topics while simultaneously destroying our lunches.

All of this happened without even knowing each other's names. We only found out those when it was time to part and I proposed changing contact information\*. Yet I feel that this somewhat accidental connection I made on that park bench with Leo the accountant overshadows any targeted contact I have made at networking events.

The result is still the same - I have a new person in my network of people I have come into contact with. However, I feel a closer connection to him. I feel like I know him a bit more, a bit better. I feel like I value him as a person, not as a stepping stone to a goal I am chasing. I feel more human and less of a self-centred goal-oriented robot.

I do this practice of "accidentally" making new connections quite often and every time it leaves me with a great feeling and energy. I urge everyone to try it - pick a victim and start a conversation with them without any hopes, goals, or intentions. You will never know who you stumble upon. Everyone has a story to tell and everyone's story is interesting. Who knows, the story of an accountant might be more inspiring than the one of a hiring manager or a CEO.

* * *

\*_Sometimes, I even skip the contact sharing part and simply do it for fun. I like to imagine people going home to their families and sharing their day like "The strangest thing happened today. This weird girl sat down next to me and we talked about this and that and then she just left. I will never know who she was."_
