---
title: "The Future of Customer Support"
coverImage: "IMG_3120-scaled.jpeg"
draft: true
---

The other day I got a phone call from my phone service provider. It was an unfamiliar number, so I hesitated to pick up. When I finally did, a pre-recorded automatic message shouted in my ear, "THIS CALL IS BEING RECORDED FOR A BETTER SERVICE!". First in Estonian, then in Russian. At least I suppose it yelled the same thing in Russian, but I would not know because I have never learnt the language.

A cloying female voice replaced the loud pre-recorded message. The voice had a tone so sweet and fake it was nauseating. The service was pleasant, do not get me wrong, but the delivery was robotic, inhumane, and fake. I felt like I was stuck at the bottom of yet another uncanny valley. It was too realistic and content-adaptive to be considered an artificial intelligence voice interface. Yet the words and the tone were so mechanical, so polished, so synthetic. As if she was reading a script word for word.

That was the closest I have ever been to a fully functioning AI customer service. And that was a human being.

##### "Druk op 3 om je ziel te verkopen"

For countless times, I have been stuck with a robot. The worst is when the automatic message is in a language I do not understand.

"Druk op 1 om uw abonnement te verlengen."

"Druk op 2 om uw abonnement te annuleren."

"Druk op 3 om je ziel te verkopen."

Okay. Cool. Where do I press for English?

I once ran into a phone bot that blurted out all the instructions in Dutch and then hung up. On its own. Just leaving me there.

No worries. I called back and pressed a bunch of random buttons until I reached a human. It took a while.

My hope is to have a system that recognises the caller's country code and adapts the message accordingly. If I call an Estonian agency with a Dutch number, I would hear the message in Dutch, not in Estonian. Or at least in English. Right now, I still have to make the choice myself, spending time on listening to the same message in five different languages before mine tells me which key to press. An automatic detection system is certainly not a perfect solution as foreigners can still own a local number, but it could be a step in the right direction.

##### High tech, human touch

I do not think the machine will replace the human in customer service. Maybe partially, but not fully. There is something a robot simply cannot replace, no matter how advanced.

Perhaps it is the speed of understanding. When a customer turns to a support centre with a problem, occasionally they are unable to articulate it properly. A human agent can easily encourage the confused client and help them phrase their problem. A robot would simply ask a series of questions, following a narrow script. A robot would reduce the workload of the support centre, but it would also damage the experience for the client. I just want someone to "get" me. Get me?

Perhaps it is the method of understanding. Common bots are not advanced enough to identify subtle nuances in client's speech or text. The customer's mood. How their emotions change as a result of the interaction with the agent. Taking into account the events and interactions the customer has had in their day before turning to support. All those things influence the client's mood and emotions. The robot does not recognise the customer's mental state and cannot adapt to it as well as a human agent.

Or perhaps it is empathy, camaraderie. A robot has never struggled with customer support itself. A robot has never waited 30 minutes for an available customer service agent. A robot has not had to explain an issue it knows little about but that is stopping it from reaching its goals. A human support agent probably has. A human can identify with the customer. A human can recognise the hassle of turning to customer support. A human can anticipate it, mitigate it, make it easier.

I know I prefer talking to a human over talking to a robot.

##### Turing test

Maybe in the future, we will have advanced artificial agents who can empathise with the user, process an abundance of information at a high speed, solve problems, and create smooth interactions. Maybe they are so good they pass the Turing test and let us believe we are talking to an actual human.
